Israeli Prime Minister Benyamin
netanyahu's office has told the White
House it wants to reschedule a cancelled
meeting an Israeli delegation was due to
visit Washington to discuss Israel's
planned ground offensive in Rafa in
southern Gaza Netanyahu cancelled the
trip after the US refused to veto a un
Security Council resolution demanding an
immediate ceasefire in
Gaza and what I can say on on Israel
more broadly as you asked me about uh
meetings that we that that were held
here uh there were constructive
discussions with Israel's defense
minister over the last two days uh Rafa
was one of the many topics discussed
with Jake Sullivan Tony blinkin uh Lloyd
Austin and Bill Burns uh the prime
minister's office uh has agreed has
agreed uh to reschedule the meeting
dedicated to Rafa so we're we're uh now
working uh with them to set to find a
convenient date uh that's obviously
going to work for both sides but he his
office has agreed uh to uh to reschedule
that meeting that would be dedicated to
Rafa which is a good thing let's speak
to Luciano zakara about this he's an
associate professor at qat University's
go study center good to have you with us
on Al jazer so Israel now wants to meet
the Americans over its plan to invade
Rafa Netanyahu has said that with or
without American support this plan was
going to go ahead so why request this
meeting over Rafa if they've already
decided that they're going to go ahead
with this planned Invasion well it seems
that they want to make clear to
everybody to the whole world even to the
United States that they will move
forward and they will not stop
regardless of uh the United n resolution
uh United uh Nation resoltion
neither regardless also the the Biden's
Administration pressure that they have
been acerting since the very beginning
of the conflict and regardless the very
clear statement that Biden and linol
have done regarding not entering into
gasa in the way they that they expect so
it's not that they're looking for a
blessing from the Americans to go ahead
with this not no I mean it seems that
the Netanyahu is not interested in the
in the the American blessing it is
interested also in showing to his own uh
population that he's tough that he's not
negotiating and that he will pursue his
objectives militarily in terms of
defeating uh Hamas and in terms of uh
recovering the hostage that seems that
has been
forgotten already by by by Netanyahu and
the only way to do that is to claiming
that they will go further without any
restriction and without even being
restricted by the United States right
where where does that leave the US uh
Israel relationship I mean there's a bit
of tension obviously since the US
abstained from voting uh in that on that
un Security Council resolution is it
just a glitch in the relationship or is
it more serious this time around Biden
made clear that there's no change in
policy so regardless of what he says or
what the United States voting in the in
the UN says that they will not stop
sending arms or financing uh Israel on
the other hand the Republicans are very
clearly St that saying that they will
never uh sign any suspension of um of
Aid to Israel in the in the senate or in
the Congress and and that they support
Israel whatever they do so considering
that Biden most likely will lose next
elections there is no possible uh change
in the American foreign policy as far as
Biden is not taking a serious measure
that is changing his policy in order to
not to lose votes so right now on the
ground what you have is a status quo
it's a ceasefire on paper only because
Israeli air strikes continue on Gaza as
we've seen what more do you think the
International Community not just the
Americans should be doing to to get
Israel to respect the this un Security
Council resolution not this one only but
but previous resolutions which Israelis
have flaunted especially countries in
this region uh the Arab countries many
of them have have largely stayed quiet
about what's happening in Gaza haven't
taken any actions against Israel unlike
some Latin American countries for
example which have cut off diplomatic
ties have uh you know call recall their
ambassadors from Israel and so on we've
seen little action from some Arab
countries why is that well nobody wants
to harm the the already the the the
achievement that they had in terms of
the relation with Israel and the
relations with the United States nobody
wants to harm the long-term strategies
and relations they they they have
witnessing know they have enjoying ER
making such a move that withdrawing
Ambassador would harm really long-term
expectations and as you said I mean the
tougher policies that they have been uh
um visible along this uh five months uh
conflict are coming from Africa or Latin
America not from the region which gives
you an idea that nobody's really
interested in
actually
helping the the Gaza population and the
Palestinian population but they are more
interested in their own interest and
surviving as a political regimes and uh
guaranteeing that they have their own
situation regionalist situation solved
without engaging in a more a longer
conflict even the public opinion in most
of the Arab countries are supportive of
more tougher of course policies cutting
diplomatic relation or even calling the
recalling the Ambassador is something
that they should have done long time ago
H it's possible I mean the pressure have
been growing in the in Europe in Europe
but neither Europe has been doing
anything I mean the discourses of camon
and other people have been showing that
they don't want the operation in gasa to
to to take place they want and they are
demanded that is far vocally but again
the ambassadors are still there nobody
sto any kind of agreement nobody stop
Aid etc etc so there are still tools
that that can be used by the
international committee when we say
International committee we we are mainly
talking about the Western countries but
also the global South can and they are
actually doing more than the North in
terms of uh diplomatic um pressure
pressure yeah thank you very much
Luciano zakara from Kat University for
joining us on aler thank you for your
time